Title: ACES Development Process - Update and Review
Publication date: 2020-08-24
Playlist: Open Source Days 2020
Description: 
	ACES Development Process - Update and Review
Speakers: Chris Clark, Rod Bogart, Scott Dyer, Christophe Brejon, Alex Forsythe, Steve Tobenkin


Join ACES community members including a working group chair, working group participant and ACES team members as they discuss their recent development and integration efforts. With a new development process influenced by the ASWF development model, the ACESNext efforts have included two ‘minor’ releases (ACES 1.1 and ACES 1.2) with significant work now underway toward ACES 2.0. Bring your questions to add to this lively discussion of successes, challenges and how you can help.
Captions: 
	                              welcome folks this next session is on                               asus development                               we're going to be talking about aces                               here and uh                               just for those who are unaware asus is                               the academy                               color encoding system and                               it's used in movie making so a good deal                               of folks                                are uh using this for their color                                management at the end of their pipeline                                for                                getting stuff in from the cameras and                                then back out to different kinds of uh                                displays and deliverables                                and so uh the reason that we're here                                today is that we wanted to give you an                                update of where we are with asus                                and also uh to let you know how our                                process                                works in an open source kind of sense                                because                                we are similar in a lot of respects                                to other projects that are in the                                academy software foundation but as it                                turns out                                asus is not yet in uh the aswf                                it's something that we look forward to                                but when we originally started                                each of these processes aswf and also                                some new stuff with aces it was kind of                                a parallel path and so we've taken a lot                                of hints from the way that aswf                                is played out and more that discussion                                will happen                                as we go but we wanted to make sure that                                we had                                something rolling and we'll eventually                                hope that we will be                                one of the projects that is under uh the                                foundation                                uh so uh the plan for today is that                                we're gonna go over a lot of that                                development process with scott dyer from                                the academy                                and then chris clark from netflix is                                going to be speaking from the point of                                view of a                                virtual working group that's what vwg                                stands for as a chair                                and then the perspective from uh chris                                bergeon who's a member of the virtual                                working groups he's going to talk a                                little bit about                                how that worked and how what it's like                                to be involved                                in aces as a participant                                and uh then of course we'll have a q a                                at the end                                uh but the important thing is that we                                want to make sure that you have an                                opportunity to get involved and so                                asus is uh a big project there are a lot                                of sub                                parts that are being worked on                                simultaneously and                                there's a lot of opportunity for                                contribution from a lot of different                                kinds of people so yes we need                                programmers but we also need people who                                are practitioners                                and so we're looking for a lot of                                different kinds of folks and so                                let's make sure that you have a chance                                to get involved and we'll talk about                                that more                                as we go uh so                                let's go ahead and get started i'm going                                to hand it over to scott                                and we'll kick it off with the asus                                development process                                all right thanks rod um hello everyone                                my name is scott dyer                                and i am a senior imaging engineer with                                the uh                                academy emotional picture arts and                                sciences science and technology council                                and i work a lot on aces and have been                                around uh                                for about                                                           about our old process                                uh a little bit which led up to aces                                    which was released                                uh toward the end of                                         um the old process the perception with                                that uh it was a little bit mystical to                                those on the outside                                those not in hollywood uh directly uh                                you know we weren't taking advantage of                                 very many tools that we have now and so                                 it seemed very much like an academy                                 project and                                 not a community project and um                                 processes and decisions were kind of                                 detached from the users                                 that uh actually put this into their                                 movies                                 and implement it and so we want to make                                 sure we wanted to make sure that                                 in uh as asus continues to develop                                 we switched our process to be more open                                 and community driven                                 uh because who's better to tell us the                                 needs than the actual users of the                                 system                                 to tell us what's what works what                                 doesn't what would make it work better                                 and to go along with that of course you                                 need some oversight because what's good                                 for one                                 very vocal user somewhere in the world                                 might not be good for all users and so                                 we need someone or a group of people                                 to oversee and make sure that the                                 overall direction of the                                 system maintains aligned with the goals                                 of aces and so we have a structure that                                 will look                                 a little bit familiar to those know how                                 aswf is set up                                 so next slide please so here is just a                                 little overview of uh                                 the simple organization chart of how the                                 new process is set up                                 uh post                                                              aces                                    up at the top we have an aces leadership                                 team and that's composed of uh                                 rod and uh his vice other vice chair                                 their vice chairs                                 and annie chang is our uh aces chair                                 at the moment so and and then also on                                 that is uh some                                 academy staff and below it we have two                                 architecture tech there are two                                 technical advisory councils one of them                                 architecture                                 one of them implementation and those                                 have different focuses                                 and beneath those and i'm going to                                 expand on those on the next slides but                                 beneath those we have the working groups                                 and the working groups are really the                                 core                                 of the community driven effort that's                                 where all the work                                 actually gets done and those are                                 temporary committees                                 of participants and users that exist                                 until their specific work items                                 are completed and they deliver their                                 group's output and deliverables                                 up to the parent tac and the tac reviews                                 it makes sure that it                                 fits in the way that they're responsible                                 to make sure it fits into the system                                 and at that point we uh integrate it                                 into                                 the aces project so next slide                                 talk a little bit more about the working                                 groups which really are the core                                 and then we'll hear from actual people                                 who have been in the working groups                                 uh so these are where you do the actual                                 engineering                                 development documentation and other                                 tasks that are essential uh for creating                                 new features                                 and integrating them into the aces                                 reference                                 uh code and things like that uh these                                 are done with regular meetings that are                                 held via web conference                                 so that's where the vwg abbreviation                                 comes up you might see a few times                                 throughout this presentation those are                                 virtual                                 working groups we no longer uh have you                                 know                                 physical meetings uh all we used to have                                 these be physical                                 in hollywood and it was kind of                                 localized because it was very hard                                 people around the world to join those                                 obviously if they're not in town when we                                 have those meetings so                                 we have regular meetings via web                                 conference those are all recorded and                                 posted online                                 uh for review for those who missed it or                                 want to go back and revisit some of the                                 conversations that we had                                 and each project is given a home page                                 where we collect                                 relevant documents to do items and sort                                 of track the progress                                 of each one of these individual working                                 groups                                 and furthermore we have a discussion                                 area on our asus central community forum                                 where                                 conversations can happen uh between                                 meetings                                 and where uh we have an archive or                                 record that we can go back and search or                                 see kind of the development of an idea                                 and                                 the contributions there before we work                                 it into a final product                                 so participation in these groups is open                                 to anyone                                 willing and able to contribute they're                                 all done online and                                 links to the meetings and information                                 are all available on asuscentral.com                                 uh and you can also create a group so if                                 you're a user                                 who has a need or something that you                                 think is important to the system                                 that needs to be addressed um you can                                 form a proposal for                                 a fill out a proposal form available on                                 our site and submit it                                 to uh start your own working group uh                                 really to do that                                 we asked hopefully that there's some                                 sort of socialization of an idea and                                 it's not just some                                 like little pet pet project that you                                 want to do but if you're passionate                                 about it and there's a reason for                                 us to do it uh the tac parent tack for                                 that particular project will                                 consider it and make sure that it's                                 lined with the goals of aces and then we                                 can get a working group going                                 um these are intended to be short-lived                                 and issue based we don't want these                                 working groups                                 dragging on forever so the the more                                 focused                                 and um clear the deliverables the better                                 we want these to be uh to be formed                                 solve a problem and then                                 conclude so we can move on and address                                 other                                 working groups and kind of keep these                                 things moving forward                                 and finally when the working group has                                 completed their work as mentioned before                                 they they submit a status report and                                 throughout the progress of of their work                                 and then at the very end they present                                 their deliverables to the parent                                 technical advisory council so next slide                                 i'll talk about the tax themselves a                                 little bit                                 so these are comprised of industry                                 experts that have a broad understanding                                 of motion picture workflows                                 and the impact that those workflows will                                 have on their organization's objectives                                 and these people are pulled from                                 studios and production companies large                                 stakeholders                                 in aces and people who                                 the decisions made about aces really                                 will impact                                 how their work gets done and the                                 supporters of aces and they want to make                                 sure that it succeeds                                 these are also practitioners people are                                 using aces in post-production vfx                                 editorial archiving game studios have                                 become very important                                 users of aces and just general color                                 scientists and subject matter experts as                                 well                                 so these all make up the tax we have a                                 good mixture of                                 different backgrounds and people and                                 they're not really responsible for any                                 engineering work they're really there as                                 oversight to provide guidance and to                                 make sure again that the                                 working groups are aligning with the uh                                 design and goals of aces so                                 um architecture tack primarily is about                                 the architecture so that includes core                                 transforms encodings                                 file formats uh metadata things like                                 that uh                                 that are sort of about the system design                                 and                                 they uh they oversee that kind of stuff                                 and then                                 obviously once once an idea or an                                 algorithm or a transform has been                                 created                                 that actually has to become available to                                 users uh and so implement the                                 implementation tag is really                                 focused on how the architectural                                 elements of aces then get                                 put into end user tools uh are                                 documented                                 and delivered to users and so the um                                 architecture tech really or the                                 implementation tech                                 is is important to make sure that these                                 can actually                                 these ideas that the architecture comes                                 up with can be implemented and                                 there's no issues there uh                                 next slide so the leadership at the top                                 level as previously mentioned is                                 uh annie chang rod bogar and jackie zell                                 are our chair and vice chairs currently                                 and then also                                 on there is uh scitec staff                                 and consultants and really these people                                 are at the top level they're there just                                 to kind of define the overall project                                 strategy and to keep                                 things focused uh aces leadership is                                 responsible                                 for allocating resources uh defining                                 work items and prioritize                                 prioritizing the limited resources that                                 we do have                                 for all these various working groups                                 that are ongoing                                 at any given time and also communicating                                 this stuff                                 uh through marketing efforts and with                                 asuscentral.com                                 uh next slide all right so                                 i said there's there's a lot of things                                 that were very similar to the                                 aswf structure the organizational                                 hierarchy                                 the use of technical advisory council                                 to oversee the projects and we really                                 want to                                 have it be open and community driven so                                 that's definitely                                 key connections there to aswf but                                 there's a few things that                                 keep us from being exactly like that                                 because aces is a system and it's very                                 complex and has many components                                 and so it's much more difficult to kind                                 of put that into just                                 a single project that could probably be                                 easily                                 ported into aswf at some point because                                 there's software all these tools                                 integrate aces into their products                                 much like those were on the ocio call                                 you know that ocio gets put into a lot                                 of different uh                                 software applications and things but                                 aces                                 is also a big part of ocios there's a                                 lot of this cross overlap                                 and how to do that exactly is is still                                 being determined and there's still                                 a lot of development going on in asus                                 itself um                                 and there's no dedicated engineers from                                 uh the companies everyone that                                 contributes to aces is doing so                                 uh a volunteer or with approval i guess                                 from their                                 uh companies to to dedicate some time to                                 uh contributing to aces efforts                                 and so uh we also have this product                                 partner program                                 uh which is a way that we've come up                                 with a mechanism to                                 help provide a little bit of guidance to                                 software manufacturers and vendors who                                 want to say they support aces                                 and for for whatever their tool might be                                 their product category whether it be a                                 color corrector or a camera                                 or display there are different criteria                                 for them to meet                                 which we believe helps show that they                                 ensure a high quality ace's                                 implementation                                 so it's uh ace is very complex and uh                                 we're not exactly sure uh you know how                                 to how to                                 reconcile that but we have a couple                                 people with us today                                 like chris clark who i'll introduce                                 right now he's going to tell you a                                 little bit about his experience                                 running one of these working groups in                                 the past and also                                 as a participant so i'll turn it over to                                 chris now                                 hello everyone um i'm chris clark i am                                 a manager of imaging technology at                                 netflix                                 and i was one of the guinea pigs for                                 this new process uh for asus next                                 um and like others on this call i've                                 been involved with aces for                                 um i think about                                              um where you know in the early days i                                 would call it                                 um the development activity was mainly                                 in person                                 um you could dial in i think i remember                                 kodak dialing in from rochester new york                                 in the early days                                 so you can definitely different time um                                 but back then i worked at a studio so                                 many pictures that                                 um you know care deeply about its                                 archive and                                 being owned by a technology company was                                 thinking about things like hdr and so                                 asus was um was a priority there and and                                 so we used it on some early                                 feature films where it kind of required                                 a little bit of                                 tribal knowledge and um custom things                                 and i think it wasn't really until                                     when                                 it was much more widely supported and                                 things were built into                                 a lot of different products and um                                 around that time i                                 moved over to netflix and um and here                                 we're trying to                                 build this global studio we have                                 offices all over the world and                                 productions all over the world                                 and so we really look to open standards                                 because a lot of what our group does is                                 identify                                 technology that everyone can use no                                 matter where you are in the world and                                 whether it's a blockbuster film or a                                 little docu-series or a                                 korean zombie show                                 you know we we want color management to                                 kind of be a fabric that everyone can                                 um can use so um                                 now we're in this phase of working                                 towards                                                            um it's been it's been exciting to be                                 more involved and                                 and um i had the opportunity to to chair                                 one of the one of the first groups                                 uh next slide so                                 um the first group that um                                 that i was chairing was the asus                                 metadata file uh                                 group which was formerly called asus                                 clip um                                 and like i said i was kind of the guinea                                 pig so                                 you know and you know annie and rod and                                 everyone was                                 was honest about that the fact that this                                 is a new process and                                 it's there's lots of room for                                 improvement and part of what                                 sharing the group is going to be is is                                 providing feedback on on how things are                                 going                                 but basically the the groups are                                 i would say academy organized but                                 community driven so                                 the academy will handle uh things like                                 setting up the                                 the go-to meetings for all the calls and                                 and recordings                                 um they have asus central essential                                 areas within there that                                 are dedicated to each group's work as                                 well as a                                 dropbox paper kind of workspace where                                 you can post files and                                 documents and things like that but i                                 would say these middle two things                                 um getting people involved in                                 maintaining scope those two are the main                                 core responsibilities i would say of a                                 of a group chair um getting people                                 involved                                 you know some of that is organic with                                 with people that are                                 interested in the the work that's going                                 on or they may have a product that                                 they're                                 planning on implementing it in or just                                 really eager participants                                 but some of it really is targeted                                 outreach because                                 not everyone knows that these groups are                                 publicly                                 open and anyone can can be involved and                                 so                                 some of it is letting people know that                                 this is going on and here's what the                                 meetings are                                 and now the academy has a really                                 convenient calendar where you can                                 see when all the meetings are happening                                 so that's that's                                 part of it the second part is                                 maintaining scope                                 so when you start a group you're                                 proposing                                 an idea and and a goal                                 and what happens when you get all these                                 really smart people                                 on a call is that people start to you                                 know                                 expand scope and try to solve all the                                 production problems                                 and so part of the chair's                                 responsibilities is maintaining that                                 and really focusing on the core                                 goals of the original proposal                                 and the last part is this bridge between                                 the architecture groups and                                 the implementation group the                                 amf group that i was sharing was an                                 architecture group because it was                                 designing the specification that is amf                                 but i i really had to be there for the                                 second group that started because                                 there's obviously going to be questions                                 about design choices and                                 um what the architecture group was                                 thinking when they                                 made the spec and so i think for                                 any group that's that's starting up it's                                 important for                                 um ideally for someone on the                                 implementation side to be                                 listening in and keeping an eye on the                                 architecture and then for people from                                 the architecture                                 side to be part of the implementation                                 discussions                                 um and as far as future improvements um                                 i think we're already seeing a lot of                                 improvement in some of the                                 the new groups particularly the gamut                                 mapping group which                                 has done a really amazing job at                                 summarizing meetings                                 for people who who miss them they are                                 recorded but                                 they've been doing these little                                 summaries of of the key points                                 things that had consensus during those                                 meetings                                 things like that and also providing                                 progress supports for you know months                                 long of work and                                 kind of summarizing milestones or things                                 that                                 they've achieved another one is                                 time zone accommodation because                                 like i mentioned this is an                                 international global                                 project and so we have tons of amazing                                 people joining from                                 all over the world and in order to                                 accommodate that                                 that gamut mapping group has been doing                                 alternating times so                                 some mornings some evenings and so                                 um because they're recorded people can                                 join ones that work for their time zones                                 and watch the others                                 on their own time and the last thing                                 is chat so we                                 we've been talking a lot about it and i                                 think scott and alex have already been                                 looking at                                 options for chat but really just                                 improving the ways that we can                                 communicate when we're not on the                                 meetings and                                 keeping track of all the work that's                                 happening                                 and just having kind of more flow of                                 consciousness                                 chats going so i think that's in the                                 works now um                                 i think scott and alex might be able to                                 answer questions about that                                 later but um that's i think about it and                                 so now i'm going to introduce                                 the other chris uh chris bergian who's                                 going to give his perspective on                                 being a participant in these groups                                 thanks hi everyone i'm chris bridgeon                                 dave lighting at elimination mcguff i                                 was responsible for the acc                                 implementation at our studio and wanted                                 to share with you                                 a quick quick app about it i'm going to                                 focus today especially on full cg                                 animation studios and the benefits you                                 can have from using aces                                 first it allows you to work with an                                 industry standard which is very                                 helpful for exchanging files and                                 deliveries                                 secondly ac set things straight when it                                 comes to terminology                                 in color management the use of accurate                                 terms is highly recommended                                 and at last but not least aces actually                                 makes your renders look better                                 if we have a look at the two examples                                 below on the left we have a linear                                 render                                 displayed with srgb transfer function                                 on the right we have an accg render                                 displayed with the srgb                                 ac output transformer we can see how the                                 area light and its influence is much                                 more interesting in aces                                 just just look at the shape of the red                                 sphere and the falloff on the green                                 plane                                 pretty cool right next slide please                                 let's scroll back a bit my first                                 experience with aces was on lego batman                                 at animal logic in sydney i was blown                                 away by the quality of the image and the                                 extreme saturation                                 i didn't know much about color                                 management back then                                 but i felt something was just right                                 started to watch                                 videos and ask questions about aces if                                 you are new to this field                                 i would recommend to watch the                                 excellency graph                                                        who was compositing supervisor on the                                 lego movies                                 next slide please back to paris in                                      i had one idea in mind implementing aces                                 outdoor studio                                 i had to face some challenges some                                 challenges so                                 i didn't fully grasp what was acs i just                                 knew                                 it looked great from my lego batman                                 experience                                 our supervisor were used to linear                                 workflow why would they change                                 there was lots of misconceptions about                                 linear                                 and there was no osceol implementation                                 in our proprietary softwares                                 i didn't know it back then but i was                                 about to start the most fascinating                                 two-year journey with one of our lead                                 developers                                 christoph verstaryana next slide please                                 we had to face many obstacles but i have                                 learned so much in the way                                 here's a couple of hints from our                                 experience                                 first of all don't try to convince                                 anyone if you don't fully understand the                                 topic                                 secondly we realized that one of the                                 biggest misconceptions in the industry                                 was about                                 linear that it was some sort of color                                 space that would give you access to                                 infinite colors                                 not at all thanks to the asus community                                 we defeated old mysticism linear                                 is a transfer function not a color space                                 this may sound trivial or basic but it                                 was a giant                                 step for us thanks to the aces                                 terminology                                 everything is much more explicit and                                 clearer                                 linear is now utility linear                                 srgb next slide please                                 one of my tasks was to convince my                                 supervisors                                 i really had to dig deep in into aces to                                 find a proper way                                 i started with the most obvious reasons                                 ac                                 is a standard developed by the empaths                                 yep                                 the people from the us cars didn't                                 convince                                 aces has been used in more than                                     movies and is a standard for netflix                                 he didn't convince sneezer aces is                                 currently used by many                                 vfx studios such as elm animal logic or                                 frame store                                 didn't convince finally it is this one                                 sentence that tipped                                 the balance in favor rendering in accg                                 brings us closer to spectral rendering                                 let's have a look at the kernel box in                                 the next slide                                 on the left we have a linear kernel box                                 and on the right we have an accg                                 render if you look at the green sphere                                 on the right you can clearly see some                                 red bouncing from the wall on it                                 thanks to the wide gamut rendering same                                 thing                                 on the red sphere next slide please                                 i have done probably hundreds of tests                                 comparing different display                                 display transformer one of the most                                 interesting was the following one                                 we compared the macbeth chart displayed                                 with the spyenim lot                                 versus the rec.                                                          and increase the stops to compare                                 at                                                                     happening                                 the color                                                              to white with the spioning i found it                                 fascinating to observe that this                                 particular color                                       outside the srgb gamut knowing that the                                 chart is used in many                                 look dev assets worldwide asus                                     should                                 even bring more improvement on different                                 aspects                                 such as gambit mapping and output                                 transforms                                 next slide please i've been an aces                                 mentor quite recently and has been                                 following the gamut mapping virtual                                 working group with great interest                                 i've actually been learning a lot                                 because this group is quite technical                                 but i think i've been able to follow                                 asking questions around reading some                                 articles                                 and interacting on ac                                 we generally generally connect through                                 go to meeting at specific hours                                 it's really great and easy to use anyone                                 can join and participate                                 and you get to listen and learn on                                 specific topics from these great minds                                 next slide please yeah thank you every                                 week the group shares it new goals and                                 milestones                                 trying to see what our options are                                 comparing different solutions                                 it is a slow process that takes time but                                 it's pretty much                                 enjoyable since you can actually                                 experience the progress                                 that has been made week after week it                                 feels great                                 to be part of this community i know it                                 can be intimidating                                 at first to post on ac central but                                 i have felt welcome since day one you                                 can you actually feel like you're part                                 of something                                 that is bigger than you and that                                 hopefully will improve the work and                                 quality of thousands of artists                                 out there next slide please                                 i would like to thank the asus community                                 christopher esparya and xavier beg for                                 their patience and support                                 more informations can be found on ac                                 central and on my website                                 chrisbridgeon.com                                 thanks for watching                                 great thanks chris so uh we want to                                 bring it back to                                 uh where we're headed here with aces                                 and uh where we're headed is asus                                     and so we want to talk a little bit                                 about what that means and                                 and what's active and what you can get                                 involved in so                                 there are some implementation groups                                 that are currently working                                 um and this is the way this                                 happened originally was that we had                                 architecture groups first and then                                 implementation groups after and so now                                 these are the ones that have                                 uh spun up and are are getting work done                                 and so that's the asus metadata                                 file of course and then the common lut                                 format which was also mentioned earlier                                 in the ocio talk                                 and i definitely want to thank uh doug                                 patrick carroll and                                 michael for uh all the nice aces                                 mentions during their ocio spot                                 uh talk earlier um we also have an input                                 transforms                                 uh group that's working on what it means                                 in order to take                                 content from the camera in however it                                 captures                                 into to get things into basis and so                                 we're trying to                                 make sure that we have good uh best                                 practices around that                                 in the architecture group the gamut                                 mapping group was mentioned earlier                                 these guys are making great stride in                                 figuring out how conversions from one                                 space to another can possibly                                 occur with minimal amount of clipping or                                 artifacts                                 and the reason this is important is for                                 the upcoming group which is for output                                 transforms                                 because one of our goals when we first                                 started                                 this new asus next basis                                             was that we wanted to be able to well we                                 went around and we asked a bunch of                                 people a bunch of questions about this                                 we did                                 what we called the listening tour and                                 one of the main things that we heard                                 back is                                 it would be great if the rrt was                                 invertible and would be great if there                                 were some parameters associated with the                                 way that output transforms worked                                 and so that's where we're headed and a                                 lot of these other things have been                                 staged towards that so we're on our way                                 there                                 and that's the big next group here so                                 let's go to the next slide                                 um we want to make sure that you can                                 come                                 and be involved asuscentral.com that's                                 the                                 website there at the top is got a new                                 look and a new layout and there's a lot                                 that you can see about                                 one example here is that we have the                                 asus logo program which is a way of                                 uh highlighting which products really do                                 meet the needs and the requirements of                                 each of the                                 facilities that they're doing and so                                 we're adding additional partners there                                 but if you join asus central you can get                                 involved immediately                                 you can certainly do the discussion                                 forum questions like chris just                                 mentioned                                 where you ask a question if there's                                 something you want to know people answer                                 quite quickly and you can get yourself                                 uh up to date pretty fast but you can                                 also                                 immediately join any of the meetings                                 that have been mentioned uh the                                 all the working group meetings are open                                 as well as uh the tac meetings so if you                                 want to attend an attack meeting you can                                 certainly                                 listen in uh it's still tack business                                 and so um                                 we would try to keep the the the                                 distracting discussions to a minimum but                                 at the same time all that is open to you                                 too                                 and so it's one of our goals here with                                 asus                                                          transparent                                 and open and give a lot of access to                                 folks who                                 can who normally felt like they were a                                 little bit distant in this process                                 so next slide regarding the logo program                                 uh as as mentioned earlier there are now                                                                                                   software implementations and so that                                 includes a lot of big names                                 for companies but in                                 in particular it is their products it's                                 not just a company that gets this                                 so we do um assign the product                                 per per product for the logo program                                 and then we've also added the service                                 provider tier and that's                                 that was something that we were missing                                 before because we generally had this                                 around well it's a camera or                                 it's a a piece of software that that                                 does color conversion but                                 um also dvi excuse me di                                 vfx and dailies all need to be able to                                 have criteria for the quality that                                 they're doing                                 so we want people to get involved with                                 the working groups                                 we are looking for as we say new energy                                 and it's mainly folks who are passionate                                 about this                                 if you really it matters to you that                                 your content looks right and that you                                 have some unique situation that you're                                 delivering to                                 we still want to make sure that we get                                 to uh                                 the situation that you need and that                                 we've got you covered and so we're                                 really trying to                                 listen to as many diverse                                 use cases as we possibly can but we do                                 need programmers for reference                                 implementations but we also need                                 people who can evaluate the quality of                                 what they're seeing                                 so use the discussion forum get get help                                 and give help                                 and please participate in the working                                 group discussions                                 so uh                                 it's time for some discussion and q a if                                 anybody has questions we right now                                 don't have any in the q a chat but we                                 certainly can                                 uh make up a few if                                 if if none of our audience is going to                                 ask anything in particular but uh                                 i'll i'll hover for a moment and allow                                 that to happen so that somebody can type                                 and hit return                                 but in the absence of that um i'm gonna                                 uh go back to scott for a moment                                 um can you talk a little bit about um                                 the the feedback that we got from                                 um what we called the rae group                                 because we didn't mention that as being                                 a                                 uh yeah sure um i it's hard for me to                                 come up with all the                                 specifics but a few uh i guess                                 maybe two or three years ago now uh                                 probably two                                 uh we had a group of uh very                                 um well many of them are involved in                                 many of these projects uh                                 good users uh feedback they kind of got                                 together                                 uh discussed a bunch of things about                                 aces that                                 they saw as areas that could use some                                 improvement                                 and related to that was not just                                 architecture of the system or algorithms                                 uh but really included um the process                                 stuff as well and part of that was                                 you know the archiving discussions and                                 and having a record of where decisions                                 came from things like that and it was                                 really                                 great feedback and very important for us                                 to hear                                 at the time because i mean it was                                 something we always wanted to do but we                                  really just                                  didn't know how to do it and we've been                                  figuring that out um                                  we've spent we responded to that uh that                                  paper                                  it's it's on um the original paper if                                  anyone wants to review the the bullet                                  points and stuff                                  there's a thread for it on                                  asuscentral.com you can just                                  go to the search and type in rae or                                  is that rie stands for retrospective                                  aces enhancement or aces retrospective                                  and enhancements uh paper or something i                                  believe                                  uh it's sorry it's been a little while                                  but there's great feedback in there very                                  well articulated uh concerns                                  and um uh requests for                                  for more openness and things like that                                  and so that really did um                                  trigger a lot of these re                                  reconfigurations that we've we've                                  undergone                                  and we're still learning you know as as                                  chris said his group                                  was one of the first ones to go active                                  under this                                  new structure and you know we every time                                  we do this we're learning a few things                                  to tweak                                  uh how to how to run it better the next                                  time there's a link in the uh                                  chat now great thanks uh so yeah it's                                  it's very good feedback in there and and                                  that really did inspire us                                  for many of the things that we've been                                  trying to implement and if you look at                                  their their                                  list of what they were asking for i                                  believe                                  we've pretty much addressed                                  most if not all of them at this point uh                                  except for obviously                                  having an asus                                                          and and that being like a revision to                                  the actual                                  uh output transform architecture the the                                  look                                  if you will of aces uh the basic                                  rendering transform and that is                                  something that is a                                  huge task and will be a huge shift but                                  we are                                  working on on getting uh to that in                                  the next year so great that would be a                                  scottish                                  task a few questions in the chat box                                  there rod um                                  yeah i see that it seems like there's a                                  couple things about timeline so maybe we                                  should uh                                  kick off a couple of those discussions                                  so um                                  so one of the things that we didn't                                  mention about the uh virtual working                                  groups is that each of them                                  has a an academy staff member that is                                  associated that keeps track and so                                  alex and scott tend to be those                                  individuals and so they're on different                                  ones                                  for gamut mapping if you could give the                                  the kind of rough timeline information                                  that would be helpful                                  since that's one of the questions yeah                                  so um all of the timelines really are                                  driven by the                                  individual deliverables that those                                  groups are are working on                                  um in in particular the gamut mapping                                  group is sort of closer to finished                                  than it is uh the start they're in the                                  process right now                                  of optimizing parameters associated with                                  a candidate algorithm                                  and doing some real-world testing                                  um so carol payne who's driving                                  um that group with mattesh strassenburg                                  are in the process of putting together                                  a proposal for how they go about doing                                  testing                                  and then once that testing is complete                                  they'll                                  reassess and determine whether or not                                  they need to make                                  more changes to the algorithm itself and                                  and then ultimately uh produce a                                  deliverable an algorithm deliverable                                  and um and present that to the tac                                  um so uh sort of long story short i                                  guess is that                                  the timeline depends on the deliverables                                  and uh they are closer to                                  finished than they are um uh                                  the start right but but it is not                                  this is not many months away right it is                                  still                                  this is looking to wrap up um this fall                                  i believe                                  yeah i i think this fall seems like a                                  reasonable timeline                                  yeah likewise there's a question about                                  um the timeline for idt                                  and and                                  well i'll actually read this question                                  because it's uh it's more than one thing                                  which what is the timeline plan for                                  adding                                  formal support for a film idt into                                  asus and will this be part of the idt                                  virtual working group and what timelines                                  can we expect for any movement                                  so i think what this is getting at is                                  that the idt is                                  how do you get from the space of                                  whatever you captured to become into                                  asus and what if the thing you captured                                  is film um so                                  what would be the timeline for that and                                  i think it falls into the same heading                                  as                                  what we want to do with the idt group                                  which is just getting started                                  is uh determine how                                  the testing should be confirmed and to                                  guarantee that for example                                  does every camera have to reproduce                                  exactly the scene the same way which is                                  sort of unrealistic and so how do we uh                                  where what are the compromises and and                                  and whatever the                                  mitigations that we do for the different                                  vendors and                                  i would note that that film is supported                                  in asus                                         there are uh two transforms in the color                                  space                                  conversion um transforms directory                                  uh one called adx                                                    other called adx                                            those um it can be effectively thought                                  of as                                  film idt's we would like to make                                  improvements to those                                  uh but it is supported in asus                                      right but it does it does need another                                  pass particularly in the presence of the                                  other cameras                                  and now that they're going to be more                                  unified we'll want to make sure that the                                  film one is more unified too                                  uh so let's make sure that i covered all                                  that                                  um and so timelines again for                                  idt that one's just getting started so                                  uh we're hoping that that'll kick off                                  soon and in fact there's there have                                  already been a couple of initial                                  meetings                                  and that should hopefully only take a                                  couple of months                                  but with all these things there is a lot                                  of hardware testing that needs to happen                                  and                                  in the absence of people being able to                                  get into the same room at the same time                                  that has become a little bit more                                  challenging                                  so there have been some delays due to                                  that that are unfortunate but that is                                  uh something that i think still we feel                                  like we want to be by the end of the                                  year                                  um alex can you talk a little bit about                                  the general                                  uh aces                                                                  target release                                  yeah so we're um we're still trying to                                  figure out                                  exactly what the features are uh for                                  asus                                      or a series of asus                                                      how we plan on going                                  about releasing that uh so it is a                                  little bit up in the air                                  um we previously said that you know we                                  were targeting                                  um uh late                                                               release but um everything's a little bit                                  up in the air right now with um                                  the change in the world and the change                                  in the ways that we're working so                                  um take that with a grain of salt uh                                  here's actually a good question                                  from uh satish goda um it says uh do                                  asus and ocio                                  uh collaborate and if so how                                  do you wanna touch on that ron uh yeah i                                  think that is an important one um                                  one of the i think there's a lot of                                  overlap                                  between the the members of our groups                                  and the members of their groups                                  and so to some degree there's                                  collaboration just because a lot of the                                  people are the same                                  but at the same time we do specifically                                  talk with the asus                                  uh the ocio leadership and the asus                                  leadership                                  um partly for timing you know when is                                  their release when is our release                                  what other concerns are we they're doing                                  i would feel like                                  um to be honest the ocio is                                  an implementation of what we've                                  delivered                                  and so they want to be aware of what                                  we've cut coming                                  and and then they're one of our best                                  uh kind of implementation groups you can                                  imagine the ocio is like a product                                  that contains asus and it makes it                                  available to others and                                  implements the standard and makes it                                  available and so                                  they've been one of the best quickest uh                                  implementation partners for us and so                                  yes it is a good collaboration and i'm                                  really pleased with the work that                                  they've been doing there                                  um and so they've they've really made                                  aces available to a lot of folks                                  and i think that was that's really been                                  helpful for us                                  uh let's let's                                  just i was just gonna try to answer a                                  question from carol payne about                                  how to join in that one over yes please                                  where to get up to date on their                                  progress that's a great question um                                  we hinted at it earlier in the                                  presentation but um                                  essentially uh if you go to uh                                  asuscentral.com uh                                  you can find links to all this stuff so                                  i'm gonna hopefully be able to do this                                  real fast i don't know                                  um okay it worked you can                                  see my my safari screen yes all right                                  great so in here uh this is                                  asiancentral.com this is the home page                                  that you'll get when you leave that up                                  if you go up to the top uh of the menu                                  bar there's a thing that says working                                  groups                                  and if you go there there's a working                                  groups home page and that way it kind of                                  gives you an overview of all the active                                  working groups                                  and has links directly to each one of                                  their their home pages                                  uh tells you who's chairing it when it                                  was started and                                  its purpose and just as it's basically                                  its log line                                  equivalent uh you can also go directly                                  to them on the menu by going to the                                  active groups and if you want to go to                                  say the gamut mapping group you can                                  click on that                                  and it takes you to this dropbox paper                                  site which is what we've been using                                  because it's kind of a live                                  uh site and and kind of lets us do some                                  cool things and really                                  so this this has an overview of sort of                                  uh lots of stuff that the group has been                                  doing                                  there's uh information on here about the                                  work in progress                                  uh that's going on and there's this                                  little table of contents on the side so                                  if you wanted to jump down to the past                                  meetings because you can see                                  here for example there's been                                     meetings in this group they've been                                  meeting weekly so that's why there's                                  been so many                                  uh and if you jump to one of those                                  they're doing a great job of putting                                  summaries uh on asus so everything here                                  is linked and this is a way you can get                                  up to speed on what's been going on                                  there is a lot of information especially                                  for this group because carol                                  uh and matthias have been doing a great                                  job uh                                  documenting their progress so you can                                  really see kind of just a bulleted list                                  of what happened in each meeting and all                                  that stuff so this is a way you can go                                  and catch up on any groups that interest                                  you                                  and uh really asuscentral.com is the the                                  jumping off point for any of this stuff                                  so go there and check it out poke around                                  and if you have questions feel free to                                  uh ask us                                  later uh and we'll be happy to                                  scott you want to show the calendar i                                  think the calendars                                  oh yeah do that uh yeah                                  yeah we didn't realize we'd have time to                                  to show the website so much                                  but i think this is a great uh well                                  scott's bringing that up i'll also just                                  throw into that there are uh recordings                                  of every meeting and a transcript                                  uh so you can watch the the recording                                  and jump around the recording based on                                  the transcript                                  so that's kind of a neat feature                                  yeah so let's see i'll just go to a                                  different group here                                  um so like calendar we have                                  oh my goodness i think on the                                  asus central resources oh sure yeah yeah                                  the one on the actual aces                                  that's a great idea yeah so if you go if                                  you go on the asus central home page                                  again                                  thank you chris i don't know i don't                                  even know how to navigate no                                  here it is calendar click calendar boom                                  there's this thing                                  and you can see an overview of when                                  these are each                                  uh working group has its own little                                  color and you can go and see                                  like oh the gown mapping group is                                  actually meeting tomorrow at                                       pacific and you can actually click on                                  that and it'll give you a link right to                                  all the relevant information so you can                                  see upcoming uh                                  events uh and meetings including the                                  session we're in right now so                                  yeah it's always up to date with uh all                                  the various goings-ons with aces                                  all right cool thanks chris thanks a lot                                  scott that's super handy                                  um we had a question from uh clairefox                                  uh                                  can you speak about the role that moving                                  image archivists play within the group                                  i'm curious how the relationship between                                  stakeholders in production and in                                  archiving                                  has been developing in practice and                                  i i'm still going to hand this off to                                  scott and alex for most of the answer                                  but i                                  do want to say that archiving of aces                                  has been a big                                  aspect of where we've gotten to today                                  that the standard for the asus container                                  and uh that went through symptom                                  a lot of these things were with a mind                                  towards what it means to do archiving                                  and so we also of course in our partners                                  folks like chris clark who are at                                  netflix                                  also care a good deal about archiving so                                  we                                  we have worked within the studio system                                  i think largely                                  for how archiving works uh but i've let                                  other folks jump in here                                  um actually chris did you want to kick                                  in anything is there anything                                  information that you would add on the                                  archiving front um                                  no i think that was a good summary i                                  think every studio has a slightly                                  different                                  approach to archiving but um i know the                                  academy has                                  has always been um you know a                                  an advocate for having a strong archive                                  with things like the digital dilemma and                                  a lot of work done there so i would                                  actually                                  um bounce it back to alex or scott to                                  see if there's any                                  work in terms of academy preservation                                  how that relates to uh to aces                                  yeah i would just say that um archival                                  is obviously a very important aspect of                                  aces                                  and we're always looking for                                  participation from                                  people who specialize in in archival um                                  that that's getting that viewpoint into                                  the discussion                                  is i think critical to making sure that                                  we develop                                  an architecture which doesn't                                  um unintentionally                                  cause pain down the line for                                  uh for the archive                                  yeah thanks one of the things that                                  wasn't mentioned is that                                  asus is under the governance of the                                  academy itself                                  and there's something called the science                                  council and the science council does                                  have                                  archive members on it and so                                  there's a lot of awareness and                                  discussion that happens at that level                                  as well so it's so i think the answer is                                  yes it's active                                  but any more involvement that you can                                  and would like to provide we would be                                  encouraging you to do so                                  uh so uh a quick question here                                  in the middle is uh is the raw to asus                                  project still being actively developed                                  and i'll admit i don't know the answer                                  to that so i'd like to know                                  too so i'll jump on that um rod asus                                  uh we lost our academy developer a few                                  years ago                                  um who was working on that and and                                  fostering that along                                  um so it's been a little bit of a                                  dormant state since then but that being                                  said                                  we're looking at ways to not only                                  reactivate that project but also move                                  that project                                  to a home that might be a little more                                  appropriate for it                                  such as the academy software foundation                                  um so i don't want to pre-announce                                  anything yet                                  but um i would maybe                                  keep an eye on marota aces it's a                                  project that                                  a lot of people got pretty excited about                                  which was really just a skunk works                                  project when we started it at the                                  academy                                  okay so uh last question that's                                  currently in the in the q a is an                                  interesting one is                                  uh do asus workflows have a bigger                                  impact                                  on the cg world than in                                         presumably                                     may just mean camera capture but uh                                  which is how i'm going to interpret the                                  this question i and then continues to                                  say i ask this because                                  online resources mostly speak about                                  setting up a cg pipeline which is great                                  but i'm curious to know more about                                  transitioning to aces and a                                               does not work with                                  cj and it's a good question because the                                  original                                  motivation for asus was a good deal                                  about                                  image exchange between                                  facilities and at the time many of those                                  facilities were visual effects                                  facilities and so a lot of cg was                                  involved                                  but it had to do with there was a lot of                                  live action and then                                  how do you hand something to someone                                  else and make sure that they're seeing                                  things the same way                                  and so yes it's uh                                  that's the genesis of this whole thing                                  uh                                  but when all said and done asus is used                                  on projects that are                                  simply just how do i get i've got three                                  different cameras                                  on a show and i want one kind of                                  deliverable that makes sense                                  and so there's been television shows                                  with no visual effects at all                                  which had been entirely using spaces for                                  their pipeline                                  so it's it's shown up                                  as the more common need was how do                                  we make things that are different look                                  the same                                  or and as well as how do we all make it                                  look                                  good in the end when there's a                                  deliverable all right                                  i yeah i'll allow anybody else to answer                                  but chris you might have some good                                  perspective from a studio                                  yeah i was just gonna uh the way i                                  interpreted that question was mainly in                                  the context of animation                                  um                                                                        i think if that's the way it was it was                                  um asked i think what we found at                                  netflix because                                  we do have a lot more animation projects                                  now is that the tools used to                                  create cg animation support asus more                                  often than the                                     tools and so that's that's a bit of a                                  blocker for                                  certain                                                                 ace to fully aces pipeline                                  i'm sure a lot of people listening have                                  tried                                  uh you know doing asus and photoshop and                                  it's difficult at best                                  so you know there's areas for                                  improvement definitely in terms of                                  the tools and you know adobe software                                  things like that for                                  for                                                        yeah no okay good good point and                                  actually the original                                  uh poster there if if that                                  if you can clarify whether or not we got                                  to your question                                  via one of the two answers that we're                                  given um that                                  that'd be helpful but uh at this point                                  it looks like we don't have any                                  additional questions that                                  are on the table and we are coming                                  towards the end of our time                                  so maybe this would be just a good time                                  to wrap it up here i certainly want to                                  thank all the speakers                                  and and all the folks and very much all                                  the folks who have been involved in asus                                  along the way there's been a lot of                                  contribution from a lot of different                                  people                                  and it's been really great to see uh                                  when we kicked off this asus next effort                                  we weren't sure how it was going to go                                  because we were doing a lot of                                  experimental things and as                                  chris clark some people were guinea pigs                                  as we were learning how to do it                                  but i do really feel like we've made a                                  lot of progress                                  and has been very successful and and                                  it's really great to see                                  the the uptake and the the                                  adoption of asus in general into                                  products as well into projects so it's                                  been                                  that's been really terrific so thanks                                  everybody                                  and i think we'll let let our folks                                  wrap us up however it is that this thing                                  ends                                  it probably just all goes dark that's                                  fade to blinds everyone thanks
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zye4bjRVCRQ


