Title: Alex Willmer - CloudABI: Capability based security on Linux Unix
Publication date: 2016-07-29
Playlist: EuroPython 2016
Description: 
	Alex Willmer - CloudABI: Capability based security on Linux/Unix
[EuroPython 2016]
[19 July 2016]
[Bilbao, Euskadi, Spain]
(https://ep2016.europython.eu//conference/talks/capability-based-security-on-unix-with-cloudabi)

Take POSIX, add capability-based security, then remove anything that
conflicts. The result is CloudABI, available for BSD, Linux, OSX et
al.

A CloudABI process is incapable of any action that has a global impact
It can only affect the file descriptors you provide. As a result even
unknown binaries can safely be executed - without the need for
containers, virtual machines, or other sandboxes.

This talk will introduce CloudABI, how to use it with Python, the
benefits, and the trade-offs.

-----

[CloudABI](https://nuxi.nl/) is a new POSIX based computing environment that brings [capability-based security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capability-based_security) to BSD, Linux, OSX et al.

Unlike traditional Unix, if a CloudABI process goes rogue it _cannot_
execute random binaries, or read arbitrary files. This is achieved by
removing `open()` & any other API able to acquire global resources.
Instead a CloudABI process must be granted _capabilities_ to specific
resources (e.g. directories, files, sockets) in the form of file
descriptors. If a process only has a descriptor for `/var/www` then
it's _incapable_ of affecting any file or folder outside that
directory.

This talk will

 - Review the security & reusability problems of Linux & Unix processes
 - Introduce capability-based security
 - Summarize the design of CloudABI - its benefits & trade-offs
 - Demonstrate how to write Python software for CloudABI & run it
 - Point out the pitfalls & gotchas to be aware of
 - Discuss the current & future status of CloudABI

CloudABI began life on FreeBSD. It also runs DragonFly BSD, NetBSD,
PC-BSD, Arch Linux, Debian, Ubuntu, & OS X. The API & ABI are kernel
agnostic - a CloudABI binary can run on any supported kernel. The
design is evolved from
[Capsicum](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/research/security/capsicum/), a
library that allows processes to drop access to undesired syscalls at
runtime. CloudABI applies this at build time to make testing & lock-
down easier.
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EssolXRfAWo


