Title: ACES BoF, SIGGRAPH 2019
Publication date: 2019-08-23
Playlist: SIGGRAPH 2019: Open Source Day
Description: 
	A briefing and conversation about the ACES roadmap and how you can join the efforts to craft an enhanced and improved ACES. Part of Open Source Day at SIGGRAPH, hosted by Academy Software Foundation.

Speakers:
Annie Chang, Universal Pictures
JD Vandenberg, Disney
Chris Clark, Netflix
Joachim Zell, EFILM
Rod Bogart, Epic Games
Captions: 
	                              hi people thank you for coming to the                               Asus birds of a feather I am Annie                               Chiang I the asus project chair we've                               got a packed agenda today of all kinds                               of things of updates and things that are                               going on and everything like that so                               we're going to go ahead and get started                               just so you know this is should be super                               interactive so please we have mics in                                the room so go ahead and raise your hand                                if you have questions or you just want                                to say something or blurt it out it's                                fine it's all good so I'm not going to                                cover all that but you'll see we're                                gonna have updates from different groups                                and what's been going on so basically we                                are here to update you on the progress                                that we have been doing over the last                                little bit confirmed that we are                                actually fulfilling your needs so we do                                need to hear from you so make sure                                you're I mean I'm not I'm I don't think                                you guys and girls in the room are                                actually very non vocal so feel free to                                speak up because I know you are and then                                we do want to ask for your participation                                and help here because this we are going                                to talk about Asus                                                    that without you and your help so almost                                a few important things to mention we are                                really actually making some progress                                here on Asus so it's cool we have been                                coordinating with the OCIO group so                                please stick around for OCIO in the next                                birds of a feather they have some                                updates as well on the Asus side of                                things and we've been trying to open up                                sorry trying to operate in an                                open-source type of manner and we do                                want to thank the a SWF for giving us a                                slot at this birds of a feather day                                although we are not part of the a SWF                                yet we are trying to work towards that                                towards that goal there so so thanks to                                the a SWF for having us and these slides                                will actually be posted on Asus central                                after this presentation so you don't                                need to take notes or anything so let me                                talk to you a little bit about the                                progress first and then we'll jump into                                the updates from the virtual working                                groups that we have                                we actually have a process so we based                                our new structure on how a SWF is                                actually running since we figured in as                                a SWF was getting going we would                                actually keep work going and so we would                                try to mimic what how Linux Foundation                                does you know a lot of their their                                principles of running their groups so we                                do believe that the fact that we did                                announce Asus                                                         be proof of the fact that stuffs does                                seem to be working you can go to this                                link here and you can check out our                                governance structure that we have and we                                do have some new groups to announce here                                but as I mentioned we were actually very                                structured around how a SWF is so we                                have created two technical advisory                                committees one for architecture and one                                for implementation the architecture                                group is really looking at code and                                specifications around all the components                                for ASIS whereas the implementation TAC                                is really meant to actually look at how                                those specifications are actually                                implemented in products so we want to                                make sure that you know there's a good                                consistent manner of how we're actually                                providing those those those products and                                and we have working groups underneath                                those technical advisory committees the                                tacks are actually made up of volunteers                                from the industry so we have a whole                                bunch of people that we are thankful for                                for coming together for that and let's                                see here so we at the speaking of the                                progress so you're gonna hear a little                                bit from Chris and JD of what's been                                going on with the the current working                                groups but we do want to announce the                                fact that we have decided that because                                the specifications for CLF and ASIS clip                                are starting to really get formed here                                the revised versions we actually want to                                start moving that into the                                implementation side so we just formed a                                couple of implementation working groups                                 to go along with CLF and asus clip oh                                 darn it the actual okay well that's all                                 right I see what you're talking about                                 don't worry about it that's a teaser the                                 asus metadata file here                                 about that we switch slides around so                                 that's why we didn't catch that okay                                 anyway so thanks to Doug Walker for                                 volunteering to chair the CLF                                 implementation working group you're                                 going to hear more about the                                 implementation groups from Jay Z in a                                 little bit and then thanks to Dan titute                                 from marquita to chair the Asus clip                                 implementation group we also have three                                 working groups that are just in progress                                 that we're actually trying to spin up we                                 have a group looking at IDT's we're                                 going to having a group that's looking                                 at the gamut study groups both of those                                 are actually we're looking for chairs                                 for those groups although as of                                 yesterday we may have found two like a                                 couple of co-chairs for the gamut study                                 group so hopefully that'll get going                                 soon and then thanks to Jay Schulte for                                 chairing what will be the compression                                 group so if you were in the openexr                                 there were birds of a feather earlier                                 there was a little question about                                 compression in the asus TX ARS and so                                 this group will actually be taking a                                 look at that and hopefully defining some                                 best practices and then you may be out                                 there thinking huh you know we should                                 actually have some other things we need                                 to do for Asus so please just make a                                 proposal there's a proposal form we can                                 send that to you you can you there's                                 there's links on it and everywhere you                                 can get get to it but you can feel free                                 to make a proposal for any kind of work                                 that you think needs to be done we just                                 ask that you have some proponents as                                 well so it's not just you by yourself                                 but there are other people that are                                 interested in the work and so that way                                 we can actually start that as a group                                 and have some work yet to go all right                                 so now I'm gonna ask JD Vandenberg from                                 Disney to come up here he is our chair                                 of the common let format no come on come                                 on I'm just going to talk while you walk                                 so no you're fine                                 and he's going to talk a little bit                                 about what's been going on with the                                 virtual working group on CLS Thank You                                 Annie                                 all right so who knows about what CLF is                                 about here Wow okay that's cool so I                                 want to just explain again a little bit                                 what was the goal of the common lot                                 format CLF it's an XML based file format                                 that can represent                                                                                                                      actually note that we have introduced                                 its we're trying to cover most of all                                 the spec even the original spec is                                 trying to cover most of the existing a                                 lot file represents a trend position                                 types namely the different number of                                 coding encoding systems like floats or                                 integers                                                                 is also node based so you were still a                                 few actually able to break down a lot                                 into is it's different component instead                                 of having to crush everything into say a                                                                                                       the command format is not and I want to                                 insist on that because I think there's                                 some confusion is that it's not a                                 specific Asus Transformer file format                                 it's been launched by the Academy as                                 part of aces what five years ago three                                 to six months ago what                                                 started                                              okay but it's not related to ASIS so you                                 can use it with you within your project                                 being part of Asus or not so what we've                                 done is that we looked at aspects we                                 formed as a virtual working group and we                                 met online we went through the specs and                                 all of the ideas we rejected a lot of                                 the specs and then we put it back on                                 because we realized later it was                                 actually a good idea and we added some                                 some of the most notable changes that                                 the the there was a real interest in                                 adding parametric transforms to make                                 sure that we have the highest possible                                 precision and we picked some of the most                                 common which is which are the log and                                 exponent we also shaved off a few of the                                 most complex part of the CLF format that                                 may have not been super useful I                                 shouldn't say that but it was very                                 contentious but we realized that index                                 map should be limited to two two                                 dimension two and we finished that part                                 of the work we are right now actually                                 actively rewriting the specs and you all                                 welcome to join it's on overleaf using                                 latex it's awesome                                 we even meeting in real face-to-face                                 which is unheard of I think it's speeds                                 up the process and and so the next step                                 after that is going to start a little at                                 the same time but dog-walker is going to                                 work on the implementation and do some                                 plugfest and that's going to be super                                 interesting because that's where we're                                 going to be able to try to break it and                                 improve it so that's it for CF so now                                 I'm introducing Chris Chris Kroc who is                                 going to talk about AC skip                                 thanks JD hello everyone I'm gonna talk                                 a little bit about Asus clip how many                                 people have heard of Asus clip or know                                 what it is a lot of you Wow ok cool                                 that's good so it was kind of spoiled                                 before so I'm gonna jump right to that                                 slide and then go back but Asus clip is                                 now called Asus metadata file so I have                                 a thought I thought there would either                                 be cheering or like tomatoes throwing                                 around but so why was the name changed                                 well a lot of people when I started                                 working on this group when I talk about                                 Asus clip they'd say oh so that's                                 something you playback it's a clip of                                 images I said no it's it's actually a                                 metadata file so we thought why don't we                                 just call it an Asus metadata file it                                 makes for kind of a nice acronym AMF                                 could be a file extension and we don't                                 have to explain ourselves every time                                 we're talking about it so this was we                                 went through a lot of different ideas                                 for the name                                 there was a poll within the Advisory                                 Committee and Asus metadata file was the                                 the clear front-runner of that poll so                                 that's the name and the full details of                                 that whole process would be documented                                 in                                                                    NAB we presented we were part of a group                                 that was the requirements group and that                                 was really going back to look at what                                 are the real requirements for a metadata                                 file that goes along with an ASIS clip                                 see there we go                                 so a shot that goes to be effects comes                                 back or a shot that moves through                                 dailies you know Asus as a framework is                                 great that it standardizes the encoding                                 and how to get in and out of it but                                 there was this missing part of you know                                 how do I describe the look of the LMT                                 that goes along with this how do I                                 contain the CDL that might be associated                                 with this or even just the Asus version                                 number that is associated with this shot                                 so those are the main parts of the                                 requirements gathering what are the base                                 things that we need to know about a shot                                 in order to view it properly so that was                                 completed we have a workspace where you                                 can check out the requirements that we                                 gathered and now what's underway is the                                 specification review group where we're                                 going to actually complete this                                 specification for Asus                                              Forsythe is is kind of the co leader in                                 that group and helping to define the XML                                 schema and everything associated with it                                 the third group that's going to start in                                 the implementation side of the of Asus                                 is gonna be chaired by Dan tattooed I                                 actually don't know how to pronounce his                                 last name he's going to chair the                                 implementation group and focus really on                                 how this thing's implemented across                                 software so the first thing that we all                                 need to know what we're receiving an                                 ASIS shot or sending one out is how to                                 view it and that's the basic basic                                 requirement number one of the Asus                                 metadata file is what's the if it's not                                 in Asus encoded image how how should it                                 get into Asus or the IDT if there's an                                 LM T I can be stored in what we call an                                 LM T stack so you could have a CDL a                                    lut basically a stack of LM T's and                                 describe the RT and OD t that are used                                 or the output transform so again these                                 are things that could travel out with                                 VFX shots so that software could know                                 how to actually display it for you and                                 there is an existing spec                                 that came out with Asus                                            talking to manufacturers during the                                 course of forming this group if we felt                                 like the existing spec was really robust                                 and and in a certain way complex enough                                 where it was hard to implement so we                                 kind of tried to strip it back and start                                 with something much more simple and just                                 add to it things that we felt were                                 required and we also discussed areas of                                 the industry that this could have travel                                 being adopted and what we could do to                                 help in that area that's a big focus for                                 the implementation group so again we're                                 generating the new specification which                                 is ongoing and you can check it out it's                                 actually on Alex's github and we're also                                 writing in latech specification on                                 overleaf similar to the CLF group and I                                 really I feel strongly that this is a                                 big part of Asus that it can it can                                 really automate a lot of those things                                 that people manually have to set up and                                 we have lots of different Luntz                                 floating around and if we contain these                                 things into a really really nice sidecar                                 file that's kind of agnostic to camera                                 or display we can really streamline                                 color management across the board so                                 that's it thanks everyone and I'm                                 introducing Jay Z yo Keem zel from eFilm                                 who's going to go through and talk about                                 some of the implementation focus groups                                 that are starting up thank you Chris                                 let's see and talking about color                                 accuracy did you realize that the font                                 of our presentation has the same color                                 as Oscar all the imaging science people                                 in the room please confirm yeah so the                                 implementation virtual working group I'm                                 very happy about that we have this group                                 what happened in the past that a group                                 of crazy rocket science type of people                                 did invent something gave it to the                                 community and then normal working class                                 people like me put a picture solar                                 system look at it and thought what the                                 hell what were they thinking                                 so like the crazy rocket science people                                 like                                                                 working class people like the other                                     of the room we come together now so we                                 have this virtual working groups the                                 implementation virtual working group                                 then implements the functions and                                 procedures developed by the                                 architectural virtual working group we                                 of course have a feedback loop there is                                 coming and going depending on if it was                                 working or not if normal people can use                                 it we keep it as it is and if we don't                                 understand it there's a communication                                 pass we're gonna have a soft start of                                 this virtual working group so wild                                 architectural group is still working on                                 it                                 the implementation group starts looking                                 at the documentation already the real                                 handover will happen when the complete                                 documentation is ready the implementers                                 take it on the implementers are all the                                 usual players in the VFX world in the                                 diee color corrector finishing area on                                 set color corrector so many of the                                 vendors and a product partners will be                                 part of this group the next one is                                 yes so the the members of the                                 implementation group virtual working                                 group may be the asus product partners                                 asus implementers end users and instead                                 of having a plaque fest where everybody                                 comes together we're gonna have                                 reference images circlings through the                                 community confirming a before and after                                 and taking care that everybody gets the                                 same result                                 what is mainly the same the main                                 function of Asus as I see it that across                                 the world in different time zones or in                                 January March and December in Africa                                 Europe and America we all can do the                                 same thing but using different tools and                                 reference images will help us to do a a                                 OOP to confirm that the images are right                                 so I'm looking forward to this new group                                 as part of Asus and thank you for dark                                 and then for taking on the two first                                 implementation working groups of our                                 project and then I give it back to any                                 okay so I'm gonna stop here for a second                                 and have there are there any questions                                 about what you guys have already heard                                 so far                                 oh yes Belinda hold on a second I think                                 there's a mic coming towards you I know                                 you're loud though but it's okay I had a                                 quick question for Chris I wanted to try                                 and better understand what the verticals                                 are the different areas of our business                                 were that we're going to have difficulty                                 with the implementation it's a good                                 question I don't know if I can name                                 specific parts that will be more                                 difficult than others I would say our                                 focus is going to be on first getting                                 them to exist in the first place which                                 means you know on set you know live                                 grading scenarios where you're creating                                 a look and people are judging images we                                 want to capture exactly how those images                                 are viewed in a in a metadata file so if                                 we can get people making onset color                                 software or camera manufacturers to                                 generate these things that we can get                                 daily software to track them through to                                 the effects polls and through red TI and                                 and kind of just maintain the look                                 throughout so I don't know we'll find                                 out which ones are the most difficult                                 but I think for those of you in the room                                 who make products I think it's important                                 to get involved and if see if this thing                                 is useful to you and how you would                                 implement it so anything else okay we're                                 gonna move on to just some of the                                 roadmap things so ASIS                                                 little bit of that from from Kristin I                                 think JT about that and I think Joseph                                 yesterday said you Annie you said that                                 this was releasing in September of this                                 year                                 I I hate to sound like a politician but                                 I don't recall saying that I'm pretty                                 sure I said fall this year so yeah so                                 we're still aiming though for this year                                 to release                                                           forward to for                                                       seal left specification the new asus                                 metadata file specification with the                                 versioning support and then also this                                 will be an interesting discussion item I                                 think is the inclusion of being able to                                 do non ASIS grading spaces and then also                                 the custom LMT application space support                                 via the Asus metadata file I'm gonna                                 have a really hard time saying Asus                                 metadata file I keep wanting to say Asus                                 clip but I can buy a beer for whoever                                 you know every time I say Asus clip that                                 didn't count                                 okay so yeah so this is what we're                                 looking for for the                                                    up this year is there are there any                                 questions we mentioned this back at NAB                                 so I think everybody if you if you had                                 an issue with this you might have                                 already brought it up to us by now all                                 right all right but if you do I mean if                                 you have any questions or concerns I                                 mean feel free to just come up and chat                                 with us we're very friendly people so on                                 to the next big meaty topic which is                                 something we did actually talk about at                                 the NAB birds of a feather but we want                                 to bring it up here again since this is                                 much more intimate than everything and                                 the idea is this asus                                                 hoping will actually launch next year                                 this is the the meaty stuff that we've                                 we've been hearing about for a long time                                 that we actually really want to try to                                 see if we can have these improvements                                 upon so the features would include a                                 simplified RRT                                 the parametric output transforms which                                 we have a little bit of that already in                                 the asus                                                                 featured one some parametric dim                                 surround support for the ambient                                 lighting and then a production-ready                                 reference implementation that would                                 actually include interchangeable                                 programmatic LMT format and an                                 interchangeable IDT formats and then of                                 course we're always striving to do                                 better and user documentation                                 hopefully this this aces                                               address some of the gamut mapping issues                                 that we've all seen some people know it                                 as the airy blue problem or the negative                                 value issue or other fun ways to                                 describe it I'm just going to go forward                                 one slide and I'll come back to this but                                 basically jay-z rod and I had done a                                 year-long listening tour just meeting up                                 with people that worked with aces to get                                 your feedback about the issues just to                                 remind you these are the top                                           are actually trying to address I think                                 all of them in this                                                                                                                             to here anybody want to discuss anything                                 questions concerns                                 Oh Joseph shlump qey where's the mic                                 here it comes a minute so I was                                 wondering if there's any wider interest                                 for a large format ASAP roll this film                                 still matter film does matter actually                                 we've been discussing a little bit about                                 the film side and the ADX stuff so we                                 don't have it listed in here but I know                                 we've gotten some feedback about it so I                                 think we can we can talk about it for                                 sure would you like to volunteer and                                 maybe make a proposal and chair a group                                 come on man                                 we'll see we'll talk but no I think film                                 does matter we've actually had this talk                                 about the coming in from film and then                                 also writing out to film and perhaps                                 this need to be revisited what's up you                                 might not need to J Schulte but some of                                 us do why CMS okay                                 I was gonna ask what is program of                                 programmatic LM T's they                                 containing code are they executing so                                 right now there's no mechanism to                                 transport LM T's in a sort of controlled                                 way most people are just packaging them                                 up within a                                                           the possibility of doing something that                                 is a little bit more analytical than                                 just a big cube to represent some sort                                 of look and some standardized way of                                 moving them from system to system                                 we're still trying to flush these things                                 out but that's the basic idea same thing                                 right so if you if you're on a resolve                                 for example and somebody says well I                                 have a new camera and I have an ID T for                                 it and they hand you a file I mean what                                 file are they handing you there's no                                 standardized mechanism to move an ID t                                 from one system to another system what                                 we want to do is look at you know some                                 way to interchange these transforms want                                 to say all this file formats then are                                 managed by a Asus meta file so the Asus                                 meta file will be the key differentiator                                 or the key explainable part which then                                 picks up on the LM T and the custom ID t                                 if there then is one so it all comes as                                 a package this J first and then dot o                                 are we so I got one more a quick                                 question about I know I'm so fun to find                                 working group chairs for the IDT in the                                 gamete management but any any idea of                                 when those if those chairs are assigned                                 when those will start well I think we                                 may have identified the chairs for the                                 gamut study we think we'll have to just                                 confirm that and so that could actually                                 get started pretty soon we just need to                                 confirm I think the proposal that was                                 actually created the proposal has been                                 actually just to give everyone                                 transparency originally har old from re                                 actually created a proposal                                 but he actually was not able to chair it                                 and so we had actually talked to Justin                                 Johnson over at luma who was interested                                 in doing it but then wasn't sure he                                 could actually chair it either but he                                 actually had done a revised proposal for                                 it so these new chairs that we are                                 looking at I need to pass on the                                 document to them and take them take a                                 look at it but it should be pretty soon                                 because we really want to get going on                                 this because the asus                                            actually all I think hinges upon the                                 gamut study because we don't really want                                 to create a new you know that we're the                                 reversible arty for example without                                 having the the gamut lockdown yeah cuz I                                 kind of feel like those two are kind of                                 interconnected and and related or is the                                 IDT what what is distributed as far as                                 best practices as far as communicating                                 when these IDT's are rolled out                                 specifically like is there involvement                                 with the camera manufacturers directly                                 jay-z and I think we may have I haven't                                 talked to these other people about this                                 but I think we may have identified a                                 chair for the IDT group so that might                                 actually be moving quickly too so in                                 December                                                            camera manufacturer on the market at                                 Panavision all cameras got penalized we                                 we shot all cameras next to each other                                 and found out what the differences are                                 even after the existing IDT's are used                                 the result of this that at the academy                                 we did build Esmeralda a sound stage                                 where we have controlled lighting and                                 then can test all these cameras and the                                 cool function will be that                                                                                                                      because the cinematographer has a light                                 meter you tell the light meter                                 what's the frame rate what's the shutter                                 angle you tell the light meter what's                                 the sensitivity of your film stock or of                                 your camera setting                                                measure                                                              tells you set your aperture to for                                 example a T stop of five point six and                                 when all this goes together based on the                                 light meter the                                                                                                                  and that was defined already in the                                 beginning when the first IDT                                 documentation came out but it's still                                 not a case so some basic functions are                                 not honored by the camera manufacturers                                 and then we want to also define what are                                 the cornerstones for the color gamut do                                 we want to give the absolute capability                                 of the camera and then ASIS ap                                       reference or do we want to give visual                                 red green and blue as it is normal as a                                 reference so dead-set the IDT virtual                                 working group will also define what                                 allowed tolerances are and at a moment                                 we are kind of off but talking positive                                 when you use the existing IDT every                                 colorist will be able to do normal RGB a                                 sec DL offset settings to bring them all                                 into a normal standard but so it                                 actually what I said earlier on we                                 didn't have the implementation group yet                                 there was only the architectural group                                 and this is actually a good example that                                 the implementation group was missing                                 confirming that everything works after                                 it is done so yes so the IDT group is                                 one of my personal it get me gets me                                 personal excited and we gonna work on it                                 to have it either sooner than later in                                 place I was actually hoping to announce                                 them actually that they were ready to go                                 today but they're not but we'll get                                 there really close very soon Mike thanks                                 I think J and then dato J oh sorry that                                 someone had them like so one of the                                 things that we hit a lot is that CDL and                                 saturation aren't quite compatible in                                 some of the wider gamut color spaces                                 that we work in                                 I blame Josh so can we put that as                                 something discuss either at the ASE                                 level or Asus level to accommodate a                                 means to be you know gamut and primary                                 aware when effecting saturation through                                 standardized means like averaging or you                                 know                                 I referred saturation calls as opposed                                 to brute hammer yeah it comes Josh comes                                 Josh no this is a known thing so part of                                 the the other evil group the ASC                                 technology committee that's changed its                                 name to Asus clip I think since that                                 name is no longer taken no but we                                 realized the existing CDL saturation                                 coefficients were you know vetted on                                 existing working spaces and stuff they                                 certainly seem to break with certain                                 transforms to a p                                                       preliminary work whether just changing                                 those coefficients is going to solve the                                 blue issue or not we're not we're not                                 sure but certainly there is possibility                                 for updating that in the CDL the bigger                                 problem there if we roll out a ASC CDL                                                                                                       get implemented and sent out but I have                                 a feeling if it were as simple as just                                 changing the saturation coefficients we                                 would have done it so but testing done                                 on the on the blue LED problem has shown                                 that it needs more than just different                                 coefficients but very valid point ok and                                 then to extend that you know I think                                 we're slowly getting into an ecosystem                                 where we're gonna need a file for a file                                 to describe another file and another                                 file part of what we're trying to get                                 down from is the well I can't look at                                 this because I'm missing a file so what                                 is the overbearing thought about you                                 know trying to not so much standardized                                 as unify where this all lives as opposed                                 to having you know replicated                                 functionality and all these files                                 because if I look at the interchangeable                                 programmatic LMT format what's to say                                 that couldn't live into something like                                 the you know comment let format as an                                 extension of that and if I take that see                                 a left world and I put it into visual                                 effects we have obviously i/o which has                                 all those numbers under the hood and if                                 stick around for a Mark's presentation                                 or two there's some other fun things                                 there that could be very appealing so we                                 know having you know feature duplication                                 between two industries ie post finishing                                 and visual effects that's one of the                                 things I'm not quite sure we're all                                 super happy about so it'd be great to                                 have those kinds of talks at the bigger                                 forum to figure out what do we do what                                 do we think cool ok I know you Ju will                                 remind you or remind me about this so                                 good alright dad oh so interesting I                                 actually had the same remark like so                                 easy is a asus metadata file going to                                 allow us to embed you know like you know                                 any any kind of you know one big curves                                 or CL apps into it or we're gonna just                                 reference to them like when you say oh                                 this is the description so we if it's an                                 accustomed IDT like you know you're                                 proposing in version two then how we're                                 going to be able to track that you know                                 IDT with a with a metadata file yeah so                                 right now everything is referenced so we                                 had that conversation up front and felt                                 like sticking the entire CLF itself                                 inside of a newest metadata file would                                 make things a little bit unruly                                 eventually so right now it's just the                                 transform name so that would be like Jay                                 was saying kind of another file that has                                 to reference so and has to have certain                                 location and and how we're going to                                 manage this location if we end up with                                 ten thousand Clips you know throughout                                 the dailies project I'm just thinking                                 like we should start thinking about it                                 straight away like you know is there                                 maybe and maybe even a database approach                                 or something like that                                 yeah that's what we deal with already                                 right                                 we have lots of CDLs or lots or things                                 floating around that have to be                                 associated with shots so we're already                                 dealing with that with data management                                 systems and databases and things so I                                 think this would just be a standardized                                 way to describe those things okay                                 and my next question is like you know I                                 I have been asked about but a few of my                                 clients you know I love the open source                                 approach but some of my clients are                                 quite adamant that we need to protect LM                                 T's so is there a like an idea that                                 we're going to start you know getting                                 some like Asus file encryption for lmds                                 and CL apps                                 I mean well it's he's gonna kind of you                                 know show and explain hey you should                                 be lucky no copying and sending these                                 files unless you really like smart - how                                 to break it but you know I think there                                 should be some sort of flag that should                                 kind of protect you know as some                                 property inside that file we actually                                 hmm I'll answer that but just quickly                                 back to what Jay was saying we dog                                 walker was I don't know easy here he was                                 oh hey Doc he was helped a lot with the                                 CLF revision of the specs and the                                 discussion and he's gonna chair the                                 implementation group and a lot of                                 discussion was about the scope of it you                                 know he OCIO has all these amazing                                 features and a lot of parametric you                                 know definitions and and at some point                                 we had like okay we're gonna stop here                                 but we could also encompass this and                                 that but what I was trying to remember                                 is that at the very least I'd like to                                 have a way that when I receive a lot I                                 can read it when I send you a lot you                                 can read it and we don't have to try to                                 guess which one of you know feature of                                 cube or three DL or whatever it is and                                 say if we can achieve that it's already                                 great and you don't have to support the                                 entire or CIO Library for a manufacturer                                 or software developer to be able to do                                 that so that's the goal now will it be                                 superseded by something else in the                                 future like maybe that would be great                                 but I think that today there is a need                                 to simplify this and then other                                 conversation we had who is in the group                                 and some of my colleagues is you know it                                 would be great to like break down a lot                                 a little better than just put everything                                 in just one transform and and also be a                                 little closer to a hardware                                 implementation in some cases even though                                 like we still have to transform that to                                 the specific FPGA programming usually                                 there's some you know parsing in and and                                 reorganizing of the of the bits but                                 because we support endanger integer and                                 everything we try to get closer to that                                 as well                                 I hope that's answers but back to the                                 it's funny because when I was a                                 technicolour before Disney Josh and I we                                 had this exact conversation because we                                 realized that a lot of di TS were                                 keeping around some of the transforms                                 that we were giving like and then they                                 were like oh I have all these film                                 transformed are available for other                                 productions I think I was I was a                                 proponent but I think it's if you have a                                 mechanism actually that you think would                                 work for that I would be interested                                 beyond like encrypting the file because                                 do you want to be generated key and then                                 oh time bombing maybe we were talking                                 about that for okay Josh ooh you should                                 answer that because your upper                                 management at various places I've worked                                 I've had this idea of oh they're gonna                                 come up with these looks and market them                                 and sell those special looks and stuff                                 and they'll encrypt them so that they                                 can't you know unfortunately there is no                                 way to encrypt a                                                    anything in any way that it can't be                                 simply reverse engineered so it's a                                 pretty difficult it's a it's a difficult                                 problem unless you get the actual                                 platforms to do the do you know if yeah                                 if it's just at least you can't emulate                                 a                                                                        an image and then you generate back                                 it's gonna be the simulation side of                                 things right so if we're gonna simulate                                 this through a code that's modular or                                 what we're talking about it's not gonna                                 stop anyone from reverse engineering and                                 if they really want it to so is it an is                                 it an indemnity thing more like on paper                                 we're good because we've got the button                                 if you use clf                                                    actually define you transform by like                                 very precise using parametric and of                                 theoretically infinite precision you                                 will only be able as far as I know to                                 emulate like a lower quality version of                                 that now I know but you won't be able to                                 like tweak the shape a lot at the                                 beginning only right you won't be able                                 to disassemble it into its places and                                 then and then turn the knobs as it were                                 so maybe maybe in that case there is a                                 case I'm just being a devil's advocate                                 maybe there's a case for it you know                                 like you will have low like um yeah you                                 won't be able to disassemble it and then                                 just like if you have an ACC DL in the                                 middle of all this you won't be able to                                 just tweak that for instance it could be                                 interesting okay and then we'll get to                                 mark I would say at whatever you do if                                 you decide to use encryption at no point                                 should it ever stop a camera from                                 functioning and or DPS from being able                                 to see their work on set so if at any                                 point the encryption version of your LM                                 T's stop a production you're probably                                 gonna find yourself not working on that                                 production thanks Joseph good common                                 wisdom go ahead more yeah it's gonna ask                                 with the Aces metadata file we were                                 talking earlier about taking information                                 from say onset grading teams and how                                 they're applying CDLs and then passing                                 that down the pipeline to post                                 production but one of the things I found                                 it at least all the major post                                 production VFX facilities I've worked at                                 is none of us are using the official                                 aces OCIO configs or color space names                                 everyone's rolling their own                                 interpretations of how things should                                 work in their pipelines so I'm wondering                                 if you're tagging names of color spaces                                 how is that possible to come down the                                 pipeline in a way that's mapable and                                 you're reusable this is not a setup so                                 this is one of the exact reasons why we                                 didn't embed specific files as opposed                                 to referencing files via transform IDs                                 because there's lots of implementations                                 of these transforms and as you move from                                 system to system there's there's                                 transforms the the the exact embodiment                                 may change so on one system you may have                                 a                                                                        be a GPU and and you're gonna certainly                                 cause issues if you start passing the                                 actual transforms yeah just add to that                                 I think we we still have work to do on                                 how we actually defined non ASIS working                                 spaces so one example on a real show                                 that you know Josh was part of the group                                 and shared a kind of example of what an                                 asus clip would look like and the CDO                                 was applied in log c not basis or asus c                                 CT or or any asus color space so how do                                 you describe log c in in the asus system                                 there's of course in IDT for log c but                                 how do we describe how to go in that in                                 and out of log c or another color space                                 so I think both CLF and asus metadata                                 file have been trying to avoid making an                                 enumerated list of all the color spaces                                 but we do need some some of the common                                 ones to be accessible as a working space                                 so                                 I kind of actually wanted to ask the                                 floor at that question because I think                                 there's a lot of smart people in here                                 and you know one of the ideas we had was                                 Asus CSC color space conversion                                 transforms going to and from some of                                 these common non Asus working spaces I                                 saw a hand that Joseph I thought I                                 remembered putting all of the e I                                 specific log C transforms into the OCIO                                 config right that there's the Python                                 code to generate those yeah yeah and I                                 and at your request the size of the OCIO                                 config file ballooned up crazily because                                 you wanted precision to like the seventh                                 decimal place yeah so Josh Joseph you                                 made it very easy for for the log C                                 functions I think it's just what other                                 ones do we include and and how do we                                 keep that up to date as new potential                                 working spaces come out in the future I                                 think actually I just I think if we                                 could if you interested I wanted to                                 tackle that for like a few years now is                                 if we could come up with just and I                                 wanted that to be part of the annex of                                 this year left but I got some push backs                                 but if we could just come up with a                                 nomenclature of and that's where the                                 trick is the most common color space or                                 how to extend that if you want to and                                 say for instance you know if an Iowa                                 gamut Loxy you just call it that that                                 way and that would save us so much time                                 also as part of the CLF when you go in                                 and out of color space it's the case for                                 ASIS but it's not the case for a lot of                                 the most commonly used color spaces in                                 general so you know the least of the                                 three primaries when it's three                                  primaries the transfer function and the                                  white point if you could like find a way                                  to do to a naming convention about that                                  that to save my life I was gonna say                                  it's all like there's certainly places                                  in our VFX pipeline                                  where we might not want to use the                                  transformations that a client has used                                  so maybe they've applied a certain luck                                  that they're using for the color space                                  for their grading but that's not                                  necessarily the best luck for us to use                                  for linearizing film stock footage or                                  something like that and so we'll                                  frequently do our own our own pipeline                                  to get for the effects working spaces                                  but then have to come back out to                                  accommodate grading pipelines and                                  grading workflow it's upside-down Oh in                                  addition to that though I was gonna say                                  it it feels like the problem is kind of                                  coming from the wrong direction like to                                  me it seems more like we should be                                  ensuring that the onset grading teams                                  are working in a consistent and standard                                  space rather than wasting time trying to                                  encode all the different potential color                                  spaces they could be grading in why                                  don't we kind of ushering them more to                                  to grading in CCT and solving their                                  problems with are you implying people                                  onset waste time and so ja I think I see                                  Josh like an HP actually so yeah it's                                     X if you can convince the DPS to do that                                  more power to you they won't so the vast                                  majority of basis shows that we've done                                  do not for our world work in any of the                                  asus grading spaces but the two things                                  there is yes of course the VFX folks you                                  should be able to bring it in to                                  whatever your working space is what we                                  want to be able to provide you as a                                  foolproof way of going oh if I do this I                                  can generate a QuickTime that matches                                  dailies because that's all that                                  editorial cares about and you shouldn't                                  have to worry about that it should just                                  be you know that should fall off the                                  truck very very easily but yes you                                  should be able to work in whatever space                                  you want likewise the DPS and the                                  colourists are going to want to work in                                  whatever space they want to work in so                                  the the same argument I think the main                                  thing here is there was a discussion of                                  do we only allow a certain enumeration                                  of allowed working spaces or grading                                  spaces you know pick all the cameras                                  stuff or oh geez a new camera came out                                  and you know red came out with their                                                                                                        because making sure no from companies                                  and                                  and then it's like okay here's a new one                                  we have to support how do we get that                                  out there how do we enumerate that how                                  do we release that and then it gets into                                  the product so I think if there is an                                  enumeration of existing ones that's why                                  we're gonna have to be able to have oh                                  new camera came out here's the custom                                  IDT a way of distributing it so that                                  production can proceed but in terms of                                  trying to get the the creatives to work                                  in a different space that they are may                                  or may or may not be comfortable with                                  that is going to be an uphill battle so                                  to your point Josh and I think to your                                  question I don't actually think there's                                  a real solution this problem other than                                  elbow grease like when I was putting                                  together the OCIO config I did a sort of                                  a trawl of the ICT the IDT's that were                                  in the CTL repo and then I looked at the                                  set of cameras than spaces that were                                  being widely used and I had to go out                                  and reach reach out to read reach out to                                  all the various manufacturers and say                                  the IDT that's there is nice but we're                                  missing XYZ spaces please help and that                                  was a you know a month long process of                                  building up the trust and the you know                                  the communication and frankly when the                                  new camera comes out when the new space                                  comes out there's not there's not an                                  automatic that's gonna happen to make                                  those spaces available you kind of just                                  need someone who's dedicated to updating                                  either the OCIO config with the                                  transform functions and the gamuts or                                  you know whatever other way you want to                                  embody those transforms I unfortunately                                  that that my message would be there's                                  just work there Thanks                                  yep Kevin yeah yeah yeah we'll try Kevin                                  will have the last say how's that but                                  thank you this has been very good that's                                  good good discussion for sure so I'll                                  start by apologizing before I turn this                                  over and people go oh yes um we're                                  talking about IDT's what about the fact                                  that some manufacturers produce say                                  ProRes file where you need one set of                                  interpretation of whether it's narrower                                  or full range and then when they do the                                  raw format it's something different and                                  so the ID T's don't necessarily apply                                  depending on the actual format you get                                  given you're gonna drop that bomb on us                                  right now it's like five minutes left to                                  go Halla joints first no no that's okay                                  I'll just summarize this by saying join                                  the groups and the discussions because                                  frankly this is all great discussion and                                  these are all real points and issues                                  that that that we have discussed some                                  degree and and and we're continuing to                                  discuss but we have meetings weekly on                                  these topics and they're phone calls                                  that you can call into and they're                                  recorded on the internet in case you may                                  sit miss a weekend                                  you can you can catch up but please                                  participate because participation really                                  is ultimately how we move to a new                                  version of a system in particular Kevin                                  and a few other people in the visual                                  effects industry when we released Asus                                                                                                         things that worked and a lot of things                                  that didn't necessarily work for their                                  facilities and their workflows and what                                  we did was we went point by point it                                  through a lot of these and some of it                                  had to do with just our process and how                                  it was we were communicating the                                  information as we were making decisions                                  but what we did was we went through and                                  and tried to address each of those                                  points point by point so really your                                  participation is career                                  ultimately to shaping what asus                                         going to be so again these working                                  groups are happening on a weekly basis                                  they're all announced on Asus central                                  comm and really you can participate at                                  any given point just by calling in to                                  the to the meetings and they're all                                  hosted on GoToMeeting and we continue to                                  to you know try to make things better at                                  this point I think I'm gonna hand it                                  over to rod who's gonna sort of                                  summarize okay there you go so again                                  thanks everybody for coming and part of                                  what alex is saying and in fact i think                                  what we've been in saying the entire                                  time is the work gets done because                                  someone does the work and the more of                                  you that help us do the work the more                                  work that gets done and so when we talk                                  about these things of there needs to be                                  a working group and somebody needs to be                                  a chair be the chair it's okay is it                                  turns out secretly all you have to do is                                  organize stuff the other people do all                                  the work so the chair is the good job so                                  I recommend that you try that so so this                                  actually is we call to action be part of                                  what we're doing because what we're                                  doing is working it's already working                                  and I think that's the important message                                  and one of the reasons that we wanted to                                  speak to you today is that we've got                                  work that has succeeded and it succeeded                                  because the involvement of individuals                                  who chose to chair and gave us proposals                                  that were explanatory of what problem                                  they were trying to solve and then those                                  problems were in fact solved by the                                  group of people on Asus central and the                                  people that came to the meetings so if                                  all you want to do is come to the                                  meetings please come to the meetings but                                  if you are able to chair we would like                                  for you to write up what that thing is                                  that you want done and so Joseph you had                                  a good list of things that you want done                                  yeah write it up right in that thing                                  yeah and actually I think that's an                                  excellent point is that some of these                                  nothing is too small nothing is too                                  large whatever that                                  excellent quote is there are things that                                  are if it's just a narrow small issue                                  that needs to be addressed but it can be                                  written up as a small issue let's write                                  it up and we can have a small group                                  about it because the idea is that these                                  things are not supposed to be persistent                                  we don't want these groups to last for                                  months in four years we want them to                                  finish what they're doing and dissolve                                  and move on to another thing because we                                  also know that the people in the groups                                  are working on many of these                                  simultaneously so we don't want to                                  overwhelm them but as much as possible                                  let's pick them up and put them down and                                  get through these items and try to get                                  ourselves to Isis                                               [Applause]                                  alright thanks folks for coming to the                                  birds of a feather please stay tuned for                                  open collar i/o which is next up and if                                  you do I mean I think there was a really                                  good conversation so I'm gonna try and                                  keep this going if we can somehow so                                  thank you and please participate                                  [Applause]
YouTube URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3_ye3tPJPI


